= mdquery

Defines a DSL for specifying and executing segmented multi-dimensional queries on your ActiveRecord-3 models

== Installation

  gem install mdquery

== Usage

A Dataset defines a Source and some Dimensions and some Measures. Measures are aggregate functions to be computed. Each Dimension consists of 1 or more Segments, and each Segment either fixes a value for the Dimension or extracts values from the datasource. Each Segment defines an ActiveRecord scope which will narrow the datasource according to the Dimension value or values for the Segment. Given the definition of the Dataset, it will query the datasource to extract data points, each of which will have a value for each Dimension and a value for each Measure

  require 'mdquery'

  Q = MDQuery.dataset do
    source Foo

    measure :count, "count(*)", :int

    dimension :time do
      label "Time"

      segment(:all) do
        fix_dimension :all
      end

      segment(:five_years) do
        narrow{|scope| scope.where("foos.created_at > now() - interval '5 years'")}
        extract_dimension "extract(year from foos.created_at)"
        values{|scope| (Date.today.year-4..Date.today.year).to_a.map(&:to_s)}
      end
    end

    dimension :users do
      label "Users"

      segment(:all) do
        fix_dimension :all
      end

      segment(:by_type) do
        extract_dimension "user_types.name"
        narrow{|scope| scope.joins(:user_types)}
      end
    end
  end

== Contributing to mdquery

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 mccraigmccraig. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.
